The President:
On Thursday, I visited a new,
high-tech factory in Michigan
where workers are helping
America lead the way in a
growing clean energy industry.
They were proud of their
work, and they should be.
They're not just showing us a
path out of the worst recession
in generations -- they're
proving that this is still a
country where we make things;
where new ideas take root and
grow; where the
best universities,
most creative entrepreneurs, and
most dynamic businesses in the
world call home.
They're proving that
even in difficult times,
there's not a country on
Earth that wouldn't trade
places with us.
That doesn't mean we
don't face some very tough
economic challenges.
Many Americans are
hurting badly right now.
Many have been
unemployed for too long.
Putting these men and
women back to work,
and growing wages for everybody,
has got to be our top priority.
But lately, the response from
Washington has been partisanship
and gridlock that's only
undermined public confidence and
hindered our efforts
to grow the economy.
So while there's nothing
wrong with our country,
there is something
wrong with our politics,
and that's what
we've got to fix.
Because we know there are things
Congress can do, right now,
to get more money
back in your pockets,
get this economy growing
faster, and get our friends and
neighbors back to work.
That payroll tax cut that put
$1,000 back in the average
family's pocket this year?
Let's extend it.
Construction workers who've
been jobless since the housing
boom went bust?
Let's put them back to
work rebuilding America.
Let's cut red tape in the patent
process so entrepreneurs can get
good ideas to
market more quickly.
Let's finish trade deals so we
can sell more American-made
goods around the world.
Let's connect the hundreds of
thousands of brave Americans
coming home from Iraq and
Afghanistan to businesses that
need their incredible
skills and talents.
These are all things
we can do right now.
So let's do them.
And over the coming weeks, I'll
put forward more proposals to
help our businesses
hire and create jobs,
and I won't stop until every
American who wants a job
can find one.
But we can't let partisan
brinksmanship get in our way --
the idea that making it through
the next election is more
important than
making things right.
That's what's holding us back --
the fact that some in Congress
would rather see their opponents
lose than see America win.
So you've got a right
to be frustrated.
I know I am.
Because you deserve better.
And I don't think it's too much
for you to expect that the
people you send to this town
start delivering for you.
Members of Congress are at home
in their districts right now.
And if you agree with me --
whether you're a Democrat or a
Republican or not much of a
fan of either -- let them know.
If you've had it with gridlock,
and you want them to pass
stalled bills that will help
our economy right now --
let them know.
If you refuse to settle for a
politics where scoring points is
more important than
solving problems;
if you believe it's time to put
country before party and the
interests of our
children before our own,
then let them know.
And maybe they'll get back to
Washington ready to compromise,
ready to create jobs, ready to
get our fiscal house in order --
ready to do what you
sent them here to do.
Yes, we've still got a long
way to go to get to where we
need to be.
We didn't get into
this mess overnight,
and it's going to take
time to get out of it.
That's a hard truth -- but
it's no excuse for inaction.
After all, America voted
for divided government,
not dysfunctional government,
and we've got work to do.
And when we come together
and find common ground,
there is no stopping
this country.
There's no stopping our people.
There's no holding us back.
And there is every reason to
believe we'll get through this
storm to a brighter day.
Thanks for listening,
and have a great weekend.